[MUSIC]
In this section,
we will be reviewing some of the tools that
are the core building blocks for
working within Excel.
The first topic is
going to be Paste special,
the second is Cell locking,
and the last topic is Named ranges.
Let's start with Paste special.
As the name indicates, this is a function
that allows you to copy and paste.
Now I'm sure you are all familiar with
the standard copy an paste feature
across many programs.
In Excel and many Microsoft products this
can be done by clicking Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V.
The paste special function
is very similar to this.
So there are a lot of different
Paste Special options available.
The most commonly used options are Paste
Formula, Paste Values, and Paste Format.
You can also manipulate the content you
are pasting by pasting using operations
such as multiply, transform, divide and
well as several other functions.
Paste Special is useful when you receive
large amounts of data that require
cleaning before you can go and analyze it.
It can also help you complete
quick calculations or
enhance the speed in which you format.
Let's take a look how Paste Special works.
First, we select the cell that
we want to copy and
then we press Ctrl+C to copy
the content of that cell.
In order to bring up the Paste Special
menu, we now navigate to the Home tab,
on the ribbon at the top of our screen.
This is in the left top
corner of your screen.
And then at the Home tab,
we select the Paste button.
By clicking on the little arrow below,
we get a drop down menu presenting some
of the more commonly used Paste options.
We were looking for Paste Special,
so let's go ahead and click on
the last item in the drop-down menu.
As you can see,
this brings up a pop-up window with
the various Paste Special options
such as formula, values, formats.
And there's also others such as multiply,
divide, and transpose.
Once you select which option you want to
use you can press OK to paste the content.
So there's also a shortcut for
Paste Special which allows you to pull
down the same menu we just navigated to.
Let's select our cell again and
press Ctrl+C to copy the content and
then to get the Paste Special shortcut we
hold Ctrl+Alt+V in sequence to
bring up the Paste Special menu.
We will be using this
shortcut going forward.
Now that we've seen how to pull
up the Paste Special menu,
let's practice using it.
In exercise 1A, we are asked to
paste the values of a data set.
Now if we try to do it using Ctrl+C and
Ctrl+V,
we see that, we get zero and
not the 20 that we are copying.
Why is this?
Well, if we go back to
the value that we are copying.
And press F2 to step into the cell.
You'll see that the cell
contains a formula.
When you copy a cell in Excel,
it does not copy the values, but
it copies the formulas.
Second, the formulas are built
with the relative references.
So if you copy and and
paste the cell two rows over and
three rows down, the reference
will all move in the same manner.
We will explore how to control this later.
But in our example,
we're looking to copy just the values.
If we go back to our copied values and
press F2 to look at the formula,
we will see that the cell
is multiplying the number 2 in
cell F10 with the 0 in cell G9.
Hence, our result of 0.
So let's take a look at how
Paste Special can help in this scenario.
As we want to only copy
the content values of the cell.
First, we select the values
we want to copy.
Here, that's D10 through D13.
Now we press Ctrl+C to copy these values,
and
then we move over cell G10 where we
would like to paste these values.
Let's bring up the Paste Special
menu using this shortcut Ctrl+Alt+V,
and then we want to paste the values.
So we go ahead and
select the Values pop-up menu,
and now we press OK.
As you can see this copies
the correct values to the table.
This is helpful when you're
manipulating data and
want to make a quick calculation just
using the values not the formulas.
However note that as a best
practice you should avoid
hard-coding data in
a model for doing your analysis.
Now let's try pasting formats.
Frequently, we want to copy just
the format into corner of the cell, and
not the underlying formulated values.
Similarly to what we did before, we start
by copying the cells we want to use.
This is D18 through D21.
Next, we select the cell we
want to copy the formats into.
And then we bring up the Paste Special
menu using our Ctrl+Alt+V shortcut.
And since we're trying to paste a format,
we go ahead and
select Paste Formats pop-up
on the Paste Special menu.
As you see the format is
correctly pasted over.
Now we also have another way to accomplish
this, and this is called Format Painter,
does a similar task as
the Paste Special formats option.
So let's press Ctrl+Z to undo
the formatting we just did using
Paste Special.
We start by selecting the format we want
to use by clicking on the first cell
in the table.
We select the format painter
option on the home tab.
Let's select it and then we go and
highlight the cells we want
to paste the format into.
As you can see this
correctly pastes the format.
So last but not least for
our Paste Special options right now.
We're going to look at pasting a formula.
This becomes pretty handy when
we want to use the same or
similar formula that is already used
somewhere else in our workbook.
But we don't want to copy the formatting
from the source location.
Once more,
we copy the cells we want to use.
Here is the cell D26
through D29 using Ctrl+C.
Next we select the cell we want
to paste the formulas into and
then we bring up the Paste Special
menu using Ctrl+Alt+V.
We're trying to paste the formulas so
let's select that option in the menu and
press OK.
As you can see, the formulas are Pasted
and the results are a multiplication,
of the values in Column F,
and a 10, in row 25.
Now it's your turn to practice
Paste Special, with Exercise 1B.
Paste the content using the different
options in the Paste Special menu.
And remember, the shortcut is Ctrl+Alt+V.
[SOUND]